# RealEstateX - Revolutionizing Real Estate with NFT-Based Fractionalization

## Overview

RealEstateX is a groundbreaking decentralized application (DApp) built on the Ethereum blockchain. It offers real estate companies and users a unique way to engage with properties through non-fungible tokens (NFTs). These NFTs represent ownership of a portion of the property, with features that include automated rental income distribution, unit resale, and token metadata management.

### Key Features

- **Property Tokenization:** Real estate companies can tokenize their properties, creating NFTs representing ownership.

- **Unit Purchases:** Users can buy units of a property, with each unit represented by an NFT.

- **Rental Income Distribution:** The contract automates rental income collection and distributes it among property owners based on unit ownership.

- **Unit Resale:** Users can list their units for sale on the platform and facilitate the transfer of NFT ownership and payment between the seller and buyer.

- **Token Metadata Management:** Metadata associated with NFTs, including property details and ownership information, can be managed by the contract.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- **Node.js and npm Installation**
  To begin, make sure you have Node.js and npm installed on your machine.

- **Hardhat Setup**
  Install Hardhat, the Ethereum development environment, along with its dependencies.

- **Development Ethereum Node**
  Set up a development Ethereum node (e.g., [Hardhat Network](https://hardhat.org/hardhat-network/), [Ganache](https://www.trufflesuite.com/ganache)).

### Installation

1. **Clone this repository:**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Onu-Daniel/RealEstateX.git
   ```

2. **Navigate to the project directory:**

   ```bash
   cd RealEstateX
   ```

3. **Install project dependencies:**

   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

### Usage

1. **Compile the smart contract:**

   ```bash
   npx hardhat compile
   ```

## Contract Architecture

The contract is organized into multiple parts, each in a separate Solidity file within the `contracts/` directory:

- `RealEstateTokenProxy.sol`: Proxy contract for upgradability mechanisms.
- `RealEstateTokenImplementation.sol`: Implementation contract containing the main contract logic.

## How RealEstateX Works

RealEstateX redefines real estate investment by introducing NFT-based fractionalization. This platform simplifies and makes real estate investments more accessible. Here's how it operates:

1. **Unique NFTs for Real Estate Assets**: Each real estate asset is represented by a unique NFT, serving as a digital ownership certificate recorded securely on the blockchain.

2. **Fractional Ownership**: When users purchase NFTs, they gain fractional ownership of the underlying real estate asset. The ownership percentage corresponds to the number of NFTs they hold.

3. **Cryptocurrency Transactions**: RealEstateX facilitates the buying and selling of NFTs using cryptocurrencies, providing liquidity to the real estate market and making investments more flexible.

4. **Income and Appreciation**: NFT holders are entitled to a proportional share of income and appreciation generated by the underlying real estate asset. This includes rental income, property value increases, and other revenue streams from the asset.

## Pitch Deck

For a more in-depth understanding of RealEstateX, please review our pitch deck: [Pitch Deck](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1NRTkwDZ56ocOJJvmw3w0KhQSArh0KTNL/view?usp=sharing)

## Front-End Application

Our user-friendly front-end is accessible at [RealEstateX Front End](https://realty-dapp-frontend.vercel.app/).

RealEstateX transforms real estate investment, making it accessible and affordable for everyone, whether you're an experienced investor or new to real estate. Diversify your portfolio and benefit from real estate ownership with RealEstateX.

Invest in RealEstateX and be part of the future of real estate investment!